1. What is DevOps?
DevOps is a transformative culture that improve the delivery 
A DevOps Engineer is a professional who combines software development (Dev)
and IT operations (Ops) skills to improve and streamline the process of developing, testing, and releasing software.

2.What is the use of SSH?
SSH(Secure Shell) is an access credential used in the SSH Protocol. it is a cryptographic network protocol that transfers 
encrypted data over the network. It allows you to connect to a server, or multiple servers, without having to 
remember or enter your password for each system that is to log in remotely from one system to another.

3.what is the git lab?
Git lab is an source managment tool and GitLab is a web-based DevOps lifecycle tool that provides 
a Git repository and  it offering the most commonly used Git workflow.

4.what is the maven ?
Maven is a powerful build automation tool primarily used for Java projects.

5.Can you explain the CICD process in your current project.
In the current project we use the following tools orchestrated with Jenkins to achieve CICD.
Maven, Sonar, AppScan, ArgoCD, and Kubernetes

6.What is latest version of Jenkins or which version of Jenkins are you using?
As of my last update, the latest Long-Term Support (LTS) version of Jenkins was 2.387.2, released in June 2023. However,
Jenkins releases updates frequently, so there might be a newer version available now.

7.What’s the difference between DevOps & Agile?
agile : Agile is a method for creating software.
devops:It is not related to software development. Instead, the software that is used by DevOps is pre-built, dependable, and simple to deploy.

8.What is ‘Pair Programming’?
Pair programming is a development technique in which two programmers work together at a single workstation.
A person who writes code is called a driver and a person who observes and navigates each line of the code is called a navigator. 
They may switch their role frequently.

9.What do you mean by Configuration Management?
The process of controlling and documenting change for the development system is called Configuration Management. 
Configuration Management is part of the overall change management approach.

10.What are the 7 Cs of DevOps 
   *Continuous Integration
   *Continuous Testing
   *Continuous Delivery
   *Continuous Deployment
   *Continuous Monitoring
   *Continuous Feedback
   *Continuous Operations

11.What is an Automated Testing
Automated Testing is a technique where the Tester writes scripts on their own and uses suitable Software or Automation Tool to test the software. 
It is an Automation Process of a Manual Process. It allows for executing repetitive tasks without the intervention of a Manual Tester.

12.What is Ansible?
Ansible is an open-source IT engine that automates application deployment, cloud provisioning, intra-service orchestration, and other IT tools.
Ansible can be used to deploy the software on different servers at a time without human interaction.
Ansible can also be used to configure the servers and create user accounts.

13.What is a Puppet in DevOps?
Puppet is an open-source configuration management automation tool.

14.What is sudo command in Linux?
Sudo (Super User DO) command in Linux is generally used as a prefix for some commands that only superusers are allowed to run.


15.What Is Jenkins?
Jenkins is a tool that is used for automation, and it is an open-source 
server that allows all the developers to build, test and deploy software. 
It works or runs on java as it is written in java. By using Jenkins we can make 
a continuous integration of projects(jobs) or end-to-endpoint automation.

16.What is an GIT HUB.
GitHub is a web-based platform for version control and collaboration that uses Git, a distributed version control system. 
It allows developers to store, manage, and track changes to their code repositories. 
GitHub provides tools for collaborative development, making it easier for multiple people to work on the same project simultaneously.

17.Explain the concept of branching in Git.
Branching means diverging from the mainline and continuing to work separately without messing with the mainline.
Nearly every VCS has some form of branch support. In Git, 

18.What is Kubernetes?
Kubernetes is an open-source platform designed to automate deploying, scaling,
and operating application containers. Originally developed by Google, it has become the standard for managing containerized workloads and services.

19.What is the Blue/Green Deployment Pattern?
Blue Green Deployment is just like we deploy two versions of our application, one is the stable version, and another is a new feature version.

20.What Is Inventory ?
In Ansible, an inventory is a file with specifying the information of hosts that going to be managed.
It contains information such as hostnames, IP addresses, and groups of organization. The inventory can be either static or dynamic,
It’s a key component for targeting and managing nodes infrastructure in Ansible.

21.What Is The Foundational Programming Language Of Ansible?
Ansible is built on top of Python, enhancing its simplicity for clear playbooks and
versatility in creating robust modules. Python’s wide range of adoption provided good community support, 
making Ansible an effective and flexible automation tool.

22.What Is AWS And Why Is It So Popular?
Amazon Web Services (AWS), is an important cloud computing platform known for its wide service offerings. 
Its popularity is developed through its scalability, cost-effectiveness, and global infrastructure. and cost reduse and innovate.

23.What Is An EC2 Instance And How Does It Work?
An EC2 instance stands for Elastic Cloud Compute service, It is a virtual server in the cloud & When we launch this, 
it will run the selected operating system with a specified application.

24.What is Docker ?
Docker is a containerization platform that allows to package an application with all its dependencies into one single entity as single container 
which can be easily deployed and run on any machine that supports docker. and its portable solution for applicaton deployment.

25.What is Docker Hub?
Docker Hub is container registry that serves as a centralized repository for Docker images. and use to share and download container images.

26.What is Docker Image?
Docker Image is an executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application.

27.What is Docker Container?
Container is a virtual environment that bundles application code with all the dependencies required to run the application.



